Let us now jump in the code.
Let us see the code in action.
First, let us build this simple system.
We are going to first create this in-memory database,
then a Person table in it,
and then provide an implementation of this EntityManager interface,
and write and read some data in this table.
Now that we created a Metamodel on the Person class,
and by the way,
this Metamodel could work on any class other than the Person class,
let us create our simple object relational mapper.
There is some preparation to do before jumping in the code because
to be able to create an object relational mapper,
we need to have a database to talk to,
a database in which we are going to write objects and
from which we are going to read objects back to the
memory of the Java virtual machine.
The database server I chose to use is the H2 database
that you can find on this page.
This is a very simple database engine that you can use
through JDBC so in any Java application.
You do not need to install anything to use this
database in this live coding session.
All you need to do is to download from here the Java file from the maven.org.
If you click on this link there,
it will download this JAR automatically and put this JAR
in this lib folder of your project.
And by the way,
this JAR is already there along with the license that you
need to accept if you want to use H2.
So this project, in fact,
is the same project as the one we used in a previous module.
I just copy/pasted all the elements, the annotation,
the Person class, and the Metamodel, along with this JAR to connect to the H2 database.